Hello and welcome back to the course on Python programming and this tutorial we going to go through
the homework exercise the solution to the homework exercise about the Law of Large Numbers.
So here's the exercise in front of us.
Let's quickly recap on what we need to do.
So we need to test the Law of Large Numbers for and random normally distributed numbers with mean equals
zero and some deviation of what we when to create a Python script that will count how many of these
numbers fall between minus 1 and 1 and divide that by the total quantity of and you know that the expected
value is sixty eight point two percent.
And we need to check that the mean of our measured value is converging to the expected value.
As you rerun your script while increasing.
All right so here we are in a Jupitus So let's go to full screen mode.
And now let's start typing up so what are we going to need.
First thing we're going to need is the function that we use to generate the random variables and it's
called around and right.
But in order to use randomness if I just run this line now so if I press control enter you'll see that
I get an error because I don't have the number pi a library or an umpire package imported So let's go
ahead and do that.
We'll go import some PI as and P.
And once again we haven't spoken about this much yet but we will definitely covered this further down
in the course for knowledge just copy the same lines that we had inside the section so if we run that
then here this should be much better so of course needs and at the end so let's try it again.
There you go.
So once again we don't need this line.
So there we go.
So we've imported the AROUND AND function.
And when we run it you can see that we're generating that value here we generating one value.
But in our challenge we need 100 so there's sort of 100.
How do we generate 100.
So in order to generate 100 we need to pass around parameter of 100.
And this was the first hint in the challenge.
So if we run this now you'll see that we're getting an error a which contains those hundred values.
OK.
And once again we have uncovered errors as well.
But basically it's very similar to what we talked about with the for loop which we're actually going
to be using now.
So what do we need to do we need to iterate over these values so we need to check every single value
and we want to see if each one of them falls between minus 1 and 1.
Right.
So let's go ahead and start carrying a for loop.
So for i in.
And then we want.
How did we create a for loop before.
Right.
So before we used the range function right so we would say range 5 for instance and then we would say
for I in range 5 do something like.
PRINT Hello.
Right.
Oh hello.
And then call my so if we're on this we get hello 0 1 2 3 4 right.
So basically we're iterating over a range here.
But in our case what do you want to iterate over is not this range or any other kind of range.
Remember that time we also learned how to create a my Or own type of range where we said my list equals
1 10.
What was it 1 10.
Actually was 10 100 or 1000 right.
So we used to also do this.
So if we run this now we get ten hundred thousand.
So as we learn before we can replace what we are iterating over here and we already happen to have a
set of numbers so why don't we take this set and put it instead of this list and then we get rid of
that.
So what will happen if we run this now you'll see that we're getting exactly what we were expecting
.
We're iterating over that set of 100 numbers and we getting these values printed out here.
So that's a great start.
So now we know how to iterate over them.
Now of course we don't need the print tell all what we actually want is we want to check if the number
that we're iterating the current iteration falls between minus 1 and 1.
So what we want to do is we want to check if and then we want to see I is greater than a minus 1 and
I is less than 1 right.
So we want to check if this condition holds then we'll do something.
And just to make it more convenient to read this card what we can do is we can add the brackets here
.
Now I know we discussed that you don't need the brackets after the if statement but if you like you
can add these brackets.
It doesn't hurt to add them here.
They won't make a difference.
It just keeps this code consistent so wherever it is reading the code can see right away that there
is a condition in here so we can keep the brackets and or we you can just remove them if you don't want
them here.
So here would say What do we do.
So what are we going to do if it does fall and cyro we want to count the number of times these values
fall inside.
Right.
So we want to see how many of these values that we've created actually fall into this interim interval
so we need a counter right.
So let's go ahead and create a counter will say counter at the start as equal to zero and then counter
equals counter plus 1.
So if I run this now what we'll get is nothing is printed out because we remove the print but we're
actually counting these values.
So if I go ahead and print counter here not inside the loop but after the loop and after the if statement
remember indentation matters so this is the body of the if statement.
This is the body of the loop.
And this comes after the loop so if I print this now what's going to happen is first these impers. happened
then Cantor is set to 0.
Then this loop happens.
So the random hundred variables or numbers are generated and I iterated over them as we saw in that
example as we saw in that print statement.
And what happens every time is.
So this loop keeps going like that every time this check is performed.
So if I is greater than minus 1 and I'm less than 1 then counter is increased by 1.
If this check is not correct if this is false then counter is simply not increased by 1 and the next
iteration of the loop happens so the loop keeps going regardless of the result of this check.
This check only affects whether or not controul be increased.
And then this happens 100 times for all the variables so this check and increase or not increase happens
100 times.
And when the variables are depleted once they're all iterated over then this is printed out.
And as you can see sixty eight is our answer and that is exactly what we were checking.
So we wanted to check if it's sixty eight point two percent so if we run this again you'll see that
68 now this time is 64 so 64 out of 100 remember what we're talking about in terms of the law of large
numbers now it's 72 so it's somewhere around 68 but it can deviate quite a bit right because the sample
is quite small it's only 100 numbers that we're testing.
And by the way just in terms of the brackets of course we can remove them just to prove a point so you
can see that it's still working like that.
Might as well leave it like that.
All right so now what we want to do is we want to increase the number of in our sample.
But before we do that we're just going to divide by 100.
And that way we'll get the percentage.
So there's our number of or percentage of observations that fall in that interval.
And now what we're going to do is we're going to increase the number of observations in our sample to
1000.
As you can see now we're getting closer again to sixty eight point two.
Now you can see that this number is not even changing it's always 60 something percent doesn't help
to 70.
Or there just once in a while.
Hops there but most of the time it's sticking around a 60 something.
So how can we introduce a parameter now.
Well it's sort of like changing it twice all the time.
We can just replace this with and in places with and set a parameter at the start all that and give
it a value of 10000 for on that again will see that it's around sixty eight point one.
So if we make it 10000 You can see that we're getting closer and closer to sixty eight point two percent
so that is exactly what we wanted to test that the value is slowly converging you see now it's always
sixty eight.
And just other digits are changing.
So it very rarely moves away from 68 percent and doesn't move far away.
So as we increase the sample size Yes it takes longer to calculate.
We're getting closer and closer and closer to the expected value of sixty eight point two percent.
And that is us testing the law of large numbers.
As you can see it works.
So yea we've proved that the law of large numbers which we tested that it works and also we got to work
with some random variables we combined all of the concepts that are most of the concepts that we learned
in this section and most importantly we practice how to program in Python solving a real challenge for
a data scientist.
Hope you enjoyed this homework exercise.
And I look forward to seeing you throughout the course.
Until next time happy coding.